<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<head
    xmlns:c="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
    xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml"
  ><title
    >Sampling and Data: Key Terms</title
  ><meta
      name="created-time"
      content="2008/03/31 15:06:07 GMT-5"
  /><meta
      name="revised-time"
      content="2012/07/03 12:36:31 GMT-5"
  /><meta
      name="licensor"
      content="MaxfieldFoundation"
  /><meta
      name="license"
      content="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/"
  /><meta
      name="keywords"
      content="average, categorical, data, numerical, parameter, population, proportion, representative, sample, sampling, statistic, variable"
  /><meta
      name="subject"
      content="Mathematics and Statistics"
  /></head
>
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<body
    xmlns:c="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
    xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml"
    xmlns:qml="http://cnx.rice.edu/qml/1.0"
    xmlns:mod="http://cnx.rice.edu/#moduleIds"
    xmlns:bib="http://bibtexml.sf.net/"
    xmlns:data="http://dev.w3.org/html5/spec/#custom"
  ><div
      class="title"
    >Sampling and Data: Key Terms</div
  ><div
      class="abstract"
    >This module introduces a number of key terms related to statistical sampling and data.</div
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="id5292816"
    >In statistics, we generally want to study a <term
        xmlns="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
        data-target-id="population"
      >population</term
    >. You can think of a population as an entire collection of persons, things, or objects under study. To study the larger population, we select a <term
        xmlns="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
        data-target-id="sample"
      >sample</term
    >. The idea of <term
        xmlns="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
        data-target-id="sampling"
      >sampling</term
    > is to select a portion (or subset) of the larger population and study that portion (the sample) to gain information about the population. Data are the result of sampling from a population. </p
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="id7388953"
    >Because it takes a lot of time and money to examine an entire population, sampling is a very practical technique. If you wished to compute the overall grade point average at your school, it would make sense to select a sample of students who attend the school. The data collected from the sample would be the students' grade point averages. In presidential elections, opinion poll samples of 1,000 to 2,000 people are taken. The opinion poll is supposed to represent the views of the people in the entire country. Manufacturers of canned carbonated drinks take samples to determine if a 16 ounce can contains 16 ounces of carbonated drink. </p
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="id7388957"
    >From the sample data, we can calculate a statistic. A <term
        xmlns="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
        data-target-id="stat"
      >statistic</term
    > is a number that is a property of the sample. For example, if we consider one math class to be a sample of the population of all math classes, then the average number of points earned by students in that one math class at the end of the term is an example of a statistic. The statistic is an estimate of a population parameter. A <term
        xmlns="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
        data-target-id="paremeter"
      >parameter</term
    > is a number that is a property of the population. Since we considered all math classes to be the population, then the average number of points earned per student over all the math classes is an example of a parameter. </p
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="id8573803"
    >One of the main concerns in the field of statistics is how accurately a statistic estimates a parameter. The accuracy really depends on how well the sample represents the population. The sample must contain the characteristics of the population in order to be a <strong
        class="emphasis"
      >representative sample</strong
    >. We are interested in both the sample statistic and the population parameter in inferential statistics. In a later chapter, we will use the sample statistic to test the validity of the established population parameter.</p
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="id7362240"
    >A <term
        xmlns="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
        data-target-id="variable"
      >variable</term
    >, notated by capital letters like <math
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
      ><mi
        >X</mi
      ></math
    > and <math
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
      ><mi
        >Y</mi
      ></math
    >, is a characteristic of interest for each person or thing in a population. Variables may be <strong
        class="emphasis"
      >numerical</strong
    > or <strong
        class="emphasis"
      >categorical</strong
    >. <strong
        class="emphasis"
      >Numerical variables</strong
    > take on values with equal units such as weight in pounds and time in hours. <strong
        class="emphasis"
      >Categorical variables</strong
    > place the person or thing into a category. If we let <math
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
      ><mi
        >X</mi
      ></math
    > equal the number of points earned by one math student at the end of a term, then <math
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
      ><mi
        >X</mi
      ></math
    > is a numerical variable. If we let <math
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
      ><mi
        >Y</mi
      ></math
    > be a person's party affiliation, then examples of <math
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
      ><mi
        >Y</mi
      ></math
    > include Republican, Democrat, and Independent. <math
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
      ><mi
        >Y</mi
      ></math
    > is a categorical variable. We could do some math with values of <math
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
      ><mi
        >X</mi
      ></math
    > (calculate the average number of points earned, for example), but it makes no sense to do math with values of <math
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
      ><mi
        >Y</mi
      ></math
    > (calculating an average party affiliation makes no sense). </p
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="id7358097"
    ><term
        xmlns="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
        data-target-id="data"
      >Data</term
    > are the actual values of the variable. They may be numbers or they may be words. Datum is a single value.</p
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="id6052994"
    >Two words that come up often in statistics are <term
        xmlns="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
        data-target-id="mean"
      >mean</term
    > and <term
        xmlns="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
        data-target-id="proportion"
      >proportion</term
    >. If you were to take three exams in your math classes and obtained scores of 86, 75, and 92, you calculate your mean score by adding the three exam scores and dividing by three (your mean score would be 84.3 to one decimal place). If, in your math class, there are 40 students and 22 are men and 18 are women, then the proportion of men students is <math
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
      > <mfrac
        > <mn
          >22</mn
        > <mn
          >40</mn
        > </mfrac
      > </math
    > and the proportion of women students is <math
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
      > <mfrac
        > <mn
          >18</mn
        > <mn
          >40</mn
        > </mfrac
      > </math
    >. Mean and proportion are discussed in more detail in later chapters.</p
  ><div
      class="note"
      id="eip-475"
    ><div
        class="title"
      >Mean and Average</div
    >The words "mean" and "average" are often used interchangeably. The substitution of one word for the other is common practice. The technical term is "arithmetic mean" and "average" is technically a center location. However, in practice among non-statisticians, "average" is commonly accepted for "arithmetic mean." </div
  ><div
      class="example"
      id="element-786"
    > <div
        class="exercise"
        id="element-915"
      ><div
          class="problem"
          id="id9963330"
        > <p
            class="para"
            id="element-389"
          >Define the key terms from the following study: We want to know the average (mean) amount of money first year college students spend at ABC College on school supplies that do not include books. We randomly survey 100 first year students at the college. Three of those students spent $150, $200, and $225, respectively.</p
        ></div
      > <div
          class="solution"
          id="id9963362"
        > <p
            class="para"
            id="element-217"
          > The <strong
              class="emphasis"
            >population</strong
          > is all first year students attending ABC College this term. </p
        > <p
            class="para"
            id="id7405647"
          >The <strong
              class="emphasis"
            >sample</strong
          > could be all students enrolled in one section of a beginning statistics course at ABC College (although this sample may not represent the entire population).</p
        > <p
            class="para"
            id="id6054372"
          >The <strong
              class="emphasis"
            >parameter</strong
          > is the average (mean) amount of money spent (excluding books) by first year college students at ABC College this term.</p
        ><p
            class="para"
            id="id8498094"
          >The <strong
              class="emphasis"
            >statistic</strong
          > is the average (mean) amount of money spent (excluding books) by first year college students in the sample.</p
        ><p
            class="para"
            id="id8683448"
          >The <strong
              class="emphasis"
            >variable</strong
          > could be the amount of money spent (excluding books) by one first year student. Let <math
              xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
            > <mi
              >X</mi
            > </math
          > = the amount of money spent (excluding books) by one first year student attending ABC College.</p
        > <p
            class="para"
            id="id8636163"
          >The <strong
              class="emphasis"
            >data</strong
          > are the dollar amounts spent by the first year students. Examples of the data are $150, $200, and $225.</p
        > </div
      > </div
    ></div
  > <section
      id="id-62970577576"
    ><h1
        class="title"
      >Optional Collaborative Classroom Exercise</h1
    > <p
        class="para"
        id="element-836"
      >Do the following exercise collaboratively with up to four people per group. Find a population, a sample, the parameter, the statistic, a variable, and data for the following study: You want to determine the average (mean) number of glasses of milk college students drink per day. Suppose yesterday, in your English class, you asked five students how many glasses of milk they drank the day before. The answers were 1, 0, 1, 3, and 4 glasses of milk. </p
    ></section
  > </body
>
</html>
