<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<head
    xmlns:c="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
    xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml"
  ><title
    >Descriptive Statistics: Displaying Data</title
  ><meta
      name="created-time"
      content="2008/04/05 16:50:59 GMT-5"
  /><meta
      name="revised-time"
      content="2012/05/12 09:56:14 GMT-5"
  /><meta
      name="licensor"
      content="MaxfieldFoundation"
  /><meta
      name="license"
      content="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/"
  /><meta
      name="keywords"
      content="data, descriptive, display, elementary, graph, statistics"
  /><meta
      name="subject"
      content="Mathematics and Statistics"
  /></head
>
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<body
    xmlns:c="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
    xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml"
    xmlns:qml="http://cnx.rice.edu/qml/1.0"
    xmlns:mod="http://cnx.rice.edu/#moduleIds"
    xmlns:bib="http://bibtexml.sf.net/"
    xmlns:data="http://dev.w3.org/html5/spec/#custom"
  ><div
      class="title"
    >Descriptive Statistics: Displaying Data</div
  ><div
      class="abstract"
    >This module provides a brief introduction into the ways graphs and charts can be used to provide visual representations of data.</div
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="id6322560"
    >A statistical graph is a tool that helps you learn about the shape or distribution of a sample. The graph can be a more effective way of presenting data than a mass of numbers because we can see where data clusters and where there are only a few data values. Newspapers and the Internet use graphs to show trends and to enable readers to compare facts and figures quickly.</p
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="id7446916"
    >Statisticians often graph data first to get a picture of the data. Then, more formal tools may be applied.</p
  ><p
      class="para"
      id="id5413204"
    >Some of the types of graphs that are used to summarize and organize data are the dot plot, the bar chart, the histogram, the stem-and-leaf plot, the frequency polygon (a type of broken line graph), pie charts, and the boxplot. In this chapter, we will briefly look at stem-and-leaf plots, line graphs and bar graphs. Our emphasis will be on histograms and boxplots.</p
  > </body
>
</html>
