<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<head
    xmlns:c="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
    xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml"
  ><title
    >Hypothesis Testing of Single Mean and Single Proportion: Rare Events</title
  ><meta
      name="created-time"
      content="2008/06/06 17:33:19 GMT-5"
  /><meta
      name="revised-time"
      content="2012/06/14 04:37:06 GMT-5"
  /><meta
      name="licensor"
      content="MaxfieldFoundation"
  /><meta
      name="license"
      content="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/"
  /><meta
      name="keywords"
      content="elementary, statistics"
  /><meta
      name="subject"
      content="Mathematics and Statistics"
  /></head
>
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<body
    xmlns:c="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
    xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml"
    xmlns:qml="http://cnx.rice.edu/qml/1.0"
    xmlns:mod="http://cnx.rice.edu/#moduleIds"
    xmlns:bib="http://bibtexml.sf.net/"
    xmlns:data="http://dev.w3.org/html5/spec/#custom"
  ><div
      class="title"
    >Hypothesis Testing of Single Mean and Single Proportion: Rare Events</div
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="delete_me"
    >Suppose you make an assumption about a property of the population (this assumption is the <strong
        class="emphasis"
      ><term
          xmlns="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
          data-target-id="hypothesis"
        >null hypothesis</term
      ></strong
    >). Then you gather sample data randomly. If the sample has properties that would be very <strong
        class="emphasis"
      >unlikely</strong
    > to occur if the assumption is true, then you would conclude that your assumption about the population is probably incorrect. (Remember that your assumption is just an <strong
        class="emphasis"
      >assumption</strong
    > - it is not a fact and it may or may not be true. But your sample data are real and the data are showing you a fact that seems to contradict your assumption.)</p
  ><p
      class="para"
      id="element-969"
    >For example, Didi and Ali are at a birthday party of a very wealthy friend. They hurry to be first in line to grab a prize from a tall basket that they cannot see inside because they will be blindfolded. There are 200 plastic bubbles in the basket and Didi and Ali have been told that there is only one with a $100 bill. Didi is the first person to reach into the basket and pull out a bubble. Her bubble contains a $100 bill. The probability of this happening is <math
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
      ><mfrac
        ><mn
          >1</mn
        ><mn
          >200</mn
        ></mfrac
      ><mo
        >=</mo
      ><mn
        >0.005</mn
      ></math
    >. Because this is so unlikely, Ali is hoping that what the two of them were told is wrong and there are more $100 bills in the basket. A "rare event" has occurred (Didi getting the $100 bill) so Ali doubts the assumption about only one $100 bill being in the basket.</p
  > </body
>
</html>
