<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<head
    xmlns:c="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
    xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml"
  ><title
    >Hypothesis Testing of Single Mean and Single Proportion: Introduction</title
  ><meta
      name="created-time"
      content="2008/06/06 17:18:16 GMT-5"
  /><meta
      name="revised-time"
      content="2012/06/12 06:42:53 GMT-5"
  /><meta
      name="licensor"
      content="MaxfieldFoundation"
  /><meta
      name="license"
      content="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/"
  /><meta
      name="keywords"
      content="elementary, statistics"
  /><meta
      name="subject"
      content="Mathematics and Statistics"
  /></head
>
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<body
    xmlns:c="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
    xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml"
    xmlns:qml="http://cnx.rice.edu/qml/1.0"
    xmlns:mod="http://cnx.rice.edu/#moduleIds"
    xmlns:bib="http://bibtexml.sf.net/"
    xmlns:data="http://dev.w3.org/html5/spec/#custom"
  ><div
      class="title"
    >Hypothesis Testing of Single Mean and Single Proportion: Introduction</div
  ><section
      id="element-137"
    ><h1
        class="title"
      >Student Learning Outcomes</h1
    ><p
        class="para"
        id="element-667"
      > By the end of this chapter, the student should be able to: </p
    > <ul
        class="list"
        data-id="list67"
      ><li
          class="item"
        >Differentiate between Type I and Type II Errors</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        >Describe hypothesis testing in general and in practice</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        >Conduct and interpret hypothesis tests for a single population mean, population standard deviation known.</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        >Conduct and interpret hypothesis tests for a single population mean, population standard deviation unknown.</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        >Conduct and interpret hypothesis tests for a single population proportion.</li
      ></ul
    ></section
  ><section
      id="id23790136"
    ><h1
        class="title"
      >Introduction</h1
    > <p
        class="para"
        id="delete_me"
      >One job of a statistician is to make statistical inferences about populations based on samples taken from the population. <term
          xmlns="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
          data-target-id="coninter"
        >Confidence intervals</term
      > are one way to estimate a population parameter. Another way to make a statistical inference is to make a decision about a parameter. For instance, a car dealer advertises that its new small truck gets 35 miles per gallon, on the average. A tutoring service claims that its method of tutoring helps 90% of its students get an A or a B. A company says that women managers in their company earn an average of $60,000 per year.</p
    ><p
        class="para"
        id="element-818"
      >A statistician will make a decision about these claims. This process is called <term
          xmlns="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
          data-target-id="hypotest"
        >"hypothesis testing."</term
      > A hypothesis test involves collecting data from a sample and evaluating the data. Then, the statistician makes a decision as to whether or not there is sufficient evidence based upon analyses of the data, to reject the null hypothesis. </p
    ><p
        class="para"
        id="element-224"
      >In this chapter, you will conduct hypothesis tests on single means and single proportions. You will also learn about the errors associated with these tests. </p
    ><p
        class="para"
        id="element-616"
      >Hypothesis testing consists of two contradictory hypotheses or statements, a decision based on the data, and a conclusion. To perform a hypothesis test, a statistician will: <ol
          class="list"
          data-id="list-1"
          data-list-type="enumerated"
        ><li
            class="item"
          >Set up two contradictory hypotheses.</li
        > <li
            class="item"
          >Collect sample data (in homework problems, the data or summary statistics will be given to you).</li
        > <li
            class="item"
          >Determine the correct distribution to perform the hypothesis test.</li
        > <li
            class="item"
          >Analyze sample data by performing the calculations that ultimately will allow you to reject or fail to reject the null hypothesis.</li
        > <li
            class="item"
          >Make a decision and write a meaningful conclusion.</li
        > </ol
      ></p
    ><div
        class="note"
        id="id23787041"
      >To do the hypothesis test homework problems for this chapter and later chapters, make copies of the appropriate special solution sheets. See the Table of Contents topic "Solution Sheets".</div
    > </section
  > </body
>
</html>
