<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Linear Regression and Correlation: Introduction</title></head>
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<body
    xmlns:c="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
    xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml"
    xmlns:qml="http://cnx.rice.edu/qml/1.0"
    xmlns:mod="http://cnx.rice.edu/#moduleIds"
    xmlns:bib="http://bibtexml.sf.net/"
    xmlns:data="http://dev.w3.org/html5/spec/#custom"
  ><div
      class="title"
    >Linear Regression and Correlation: Introduction</div
  ><div
      class="abstract"
    >This module provides an introduction of Linear Regression and Correlation as a part of Collaborative Statistics collection (col10522) by Barbara Illowsky and Susan Dean.</div
  ><section
      id="element-592"
    ><h1
        class="title"
      >Student Learning Outcomes</h1
    ><p
        class="para"
        id="element-382"
      >By the end of this chapter, the student should be able to:</p
    ><ul
        class="list"
        data-id="element-22"
        data-list-type="bulleted"
      ><li
          class="item"
        >Discuss basic ideas of linear regression and correlation.</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        >Create and interpret a line of best fit.</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        >Calculate and interpret the correlation coefficient.</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        >Calculate and interpret outliers.</li
      ></ul
    ></section
  ><section
      id="id1164698913821"
    ><h1
        class="title"
      >Introduction</h1
    > <p
        class="para"
        id="delete_me"
      >Professionals often want to know how two or more numeric variables are related. For example, is there a relationship between the grade on the second math exam a student takes and the grade on the final exam? If there is a relationship, what is it and how strong is the relationship?</p
    ><p
        class="para"
        id="element-814"
      >In another example, your income may be determined by your education, your profession, your years of experience, and your ability. The amount you pay a repair person for labor is often determined by an initial amount plus an hourly fee. These are all examples in which regression can be used.</p
    ><p
        class="para"
        id="element-363"
      >The type of data described in the examples is <strong
          class="emphasis"
        >bivariate</strong
      > data - "bi" for two variables. In reality, statisticians use <strong
          class="emphasis"
        >multivariate</strong
      > data, meaning many variables.</p
    ><p
        class="para"
        id="element-601"
      >In this chapter, you will be studying the simplest form of regression, "linear regression" with one independent variable (<math
          xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
        ><mi
          >x</mi
        ></math
      >). This involves data that fits a line in two dimensions. You will also study correlation which measures how strong the relationship is.</p
    > </section
  > </body
>
</html>
