<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>The Chi-Square Distribution: Introduction</title></head>
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<body
    xmlns:c="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
    xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml"
    xmlns:qml="http://cnx.rice.edu/qml/1.0"
    xmlns:mod="http://cnx.rice.edu/#moduleIds"
    xmlns:bib="http://bibtexml.sf.net/"
    xmlns:data="http://dev.w3.org/html5/spec/#custom"
  ><div
      class="title"
    >The Chi-Square Distribution: Introduction</div
  ><div
      class="abstract"
    >This module provides an introduction to Chi-Square Distribution as a part of Collaborative Statistics collection (col10522) by Barbara Illowsky and Susan Dean.</div
  ><section
      id="element-217"
    ><h1
        class="title"
      >Student Learning Outcomes</h1
    ><p
        class="para"
        id="element-335"
      > By the end of this chapter, the student should be able to: </p
    ><ul
        class="list"
        data-id="element-377"
        data-list-type="bulleted"
      ><li
          class="item"
        >Interpret the chi-square probability distribution as the sample size changes.</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        >Conduct and interpret chi-square goodness-of-fit hypothesis tests.</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        >Conduct and interpret chi-square test of independence hypothesis tests.</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        >Conduct and interpret chi-square homogeneity hypothesis tests.</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        >Conduct and interpret chi-square single variance hypothesis tests.</li
      > </ul
    ></section
  ><section
      id="id18472880"
    ><h1
        class="title"
      >Introduction</h1
    > <p
        class="para"
        id="delete_me"
      >Have you ever wondered if lottery numbers were evenly distributed or if some numbers occurred with a greater frequency? How about if the types of movies people preferred were different across different age groups? What about if a coffee machine was dispensing approximately the same amount of coffee each time? You could answer these questions by conducting a hypothesis test.</p
    ><p
        class="para"
        id="element-8"
      >You will now study a new distribution, one that is used to determine the answers to the above examples. This distribution is called the Chi-square distribution.</p
    ><p
        class="para"
        id="element-213"
      >In this chapter, you will learn the three major applications of the Chi-square distribution: <ul
          class="list"
          data-id="list-9872341"
          data-list-type="bulleted"
        ><li
            class="item"
          >The goodness-of-fit test, which determines if data fit a particular distribution, such as with the lottery example</li
        > <li
            class="item"
          >The test of independence, which determines if events are independent, such as with the movie example</li
        > <li
            class="item"
          >The test of a single variance, which tests variability, such as with the coffee example</li
        > </ul
      ></p
    ><div
        class="note"
        id="id17641525"
      >Though the Chi-square calculations depend on calculators or computers for most of the calculations, there is a table available (see the Table of Contents <strong
          class="emphasis"
        >15. Tables</strong
      >). TI-83+ and TI-84 calculator instructions are included in the text.</div
    ></section
  ><section
      id="sec-184"
    ><h1
        class="title"
      >Optional Collaborative Classroom Activity</h1
    > <p
        class="para"
        id="element-747"
      > Look in the sports section of a newspaper or on the Internet for some sports data (baseball averages, basketball scores, golf tournament scores, football odds, swimming times, etc.). Plot a histogram and a boxplot using your data. See if you can determine a probability distribution that your data fits. Have a discussion with the class about your choice.</p
    ></section
  > </body
>
</html>
