<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<head
    xmlns:c="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
    xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml"
  ><title
    >Collaborative Statistics: Projects: Hypothesis Testing Article</title
  ><meta
      name="created-time"
      content="2008/06/27 15:53:11 GMT-5"
  /><meta
      name="revised-time"
      content="2011/03/02 09:21:41 US/Central"
  /><meta
      name="licensor"
      content="MaxfieldFoundation"
  /><meta
      name="license"
      content="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/"
  /><meta
      name="keywords"
      content="article, elementary, hypothesis, statistics, survey, test"
  /><meta
      name="subject"
      content="Mathematics and Statistics"
  /></head
>
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<body
    xmlns:c="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
    xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml"
    xmlns:qml="http://cnx.rice.edu/qml/1.0"
    xmlns:mod="http://cnx.rice.edu/#moduleIds"
    xmlns:bib="http://bibtexml.sf.net/"
    xmlns:data="http://dev.w3.org/html5/spec/#custom"
  ><div
      class="title"
    >Collaborative Statistics: Projects: Hypothesis Testing Article</div
  ><div
      class="abstract"
    >In this project, students will identify real-world examples of hypothesis testing in the media. Students will then conduct their own survey and compare results.</div
  > <section
      id="element-517"
    ><h1
        class="title"
      >Student Learning Objectives</h1
    > <ul
        class="list"
        data-id="element-599"
        data-list-type="bulleted"
      ><li
          class="item"
        >The student will identify a hypothesis testing problem in print.</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        >The student will conduct a survey to verify or dispute the results of the hypothesis test.</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        >The student will summarize the article, analysis, and conclusions in a report.</li
      ></ul
    ></section
  ><section
      id="element-708"
    ><h1
        class="title"
      >Instructions</h1
    > <p
        class="para"
        id="element-262"
      >As you complete each task below, check it off. Answer all questions in your summary. </p
    ><list
        xmlns="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
        data-id="element-964"
        data-list-type="labeled-item"
        data-mark-suffix=""
      ><li
          xmlns=""
          class="item"
          data-label="____"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Find an article</strong
        > in a newspaper, magazine or on the internet which makes a claim about <strong
            class="emphasis"
          >ONE</strong
        > population mean or <strong
            class="emphasis"
          >ONE</strong
        > population proportion. The claim may be based upon a survey that the article was reporting on. Decide whether this claim is the null or alternate hypothesis.</li
      > <li
          xmlns=""
          class="item"
          data-label="____"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Copy or print out the article</strong
        > and include a copy in your project, along with the source.</li
      > <li
          xmlns=""
          class="item"
          data-label="____"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >State how you will collect your data.</strong
        > (Convenience sampling is not acceptable.)</li
      > <li
          xmlns=""
          class="item"
          data-label="____"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Conduct your survey. You must have more than 50 responses in your sample.</strong
        > When you hand in your final project, attach the tally sheet or the packet of questionnaires that you used to collect data. Your data must be real. </li
      > <li
          xmlns=""
          class="item"
          data-label="____"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >State the statistics</strong
        > that are a result of your data collection: sample size, sample mean, and sample standard deviation, OR sample size and number of successes.</li
      > <li
          xmlns=""
          class="item"
          data-label="____"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Make 2 copies of the appropriate solution sheet.</strong
        ></li
      > <li
          xmlns=""
          class="item"
          data-label="____"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Record the hypothesis test</strong
        > on the solution sheet, based on your experiment. <strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Do a DRAFT solution</strong
        > first on one of the solution sheets and check it over carefully. Have a classmate check your solution to see if it is done correctly. Make your decision using a 5% level of significance. Include the 95% confidence interval on the solution sheet.</li
      > <li
          xmlns=""
          class="item"
          data-label="____"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Create a graph that illustrates your data.</strong
        > This may be a pie or bar chart or may be a histogram or box plot, depending on the nature of your data. Produce a graph that makes sense for your data and gives useful visual information about your data. You may need to look at several types of graphs before you decide which is the most appropriate for the type of data in your project. </li
      > <li
          xmlns=""
          class="item"
          data-label="____"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Write your summary</strong
        > (in complete sentences and paragraphs, with proper grammar and correct spelling) that describes the project. The summary <strong
            class="emphasis"
          >MUST</strong
        > include: <list
            data-id="list-964"
            data-list-type="labeled-item"
            data-mark-suffix="."
          ><li
              xmlns=""
              class="item"
              data-label="1"
            >Brief discussion of the article, including the source. </li
          > <li
              xmlns=""
              class="item"
              data-label="2"
            >Statement of the claim made in the article (one of the hypotheses).</li
          > <li
              xmlns=""
              class="item"
              data-label="3"
            >Detailed description of how, where, and when you collected the data, including the sampling technique. Did you use cluster, stratified, systematic, or simple random sampling (using a random number generator)? As stated above, convenience sampling is not acceptable. </li
          > <li
              xmlns=""
              class="item"
              data-label="4"
            >Conclusion about the article claim in light of your hypothesis test. This is the conclusion of your hypothesis test, stated in words, in the context of the situation in your project in sentence form, as if you were writing this conclusion for a non-statistician.</li
          > <li
              xmlns=""
              class="item"
              data-label="5"
            >Sentence interpreting your confidence interval in the context of the situation in your project.</li
          > </list
        > </li
      ></list
    ></section
  > <section
      id="element-253"
    ><h1
        class="title"
      >Assignment Checklist</h1
    > <p
        class="para"
        id="element-22"
      >Turn in the following typed (12 point) and stapled packet for your final project:</p
    ><list
        xmlns="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
        data-id="element-731"
        data-list-type="labeled-item"
        data-mark-suffix=""
      ><li
          xmlns=""
          class="item"
          data-label="____"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Cover sheet</strong
        > containing your name(s), class time, and the name of your study.</li
      > <li
          xmlns=""
          class="item"
          data-label="____"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Summary</strong
        >, which includes all items listed on summary checklist.</li
      > <li
          xmlns=""
          class="item"
          data-label="____"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Solution sheet</strong
        > neatly and completely filled out. The solution sheet does not need to be typed.</li
      > <li
          xmlns=""
          class="item"
          data-label="____"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Graphic representation of your data</strong
        >, created following the guidelines discussed above. Include only graphs which are appropriate and useful.</li
      > <li
          xmlns=""
          class="item"
          data-label="____"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Raw data collected AND a table summarizing the sample data</strong
        > (n, xbar and s; or x, n, and p&#x2019;, as appropriate for your hypotheses). The raw data does not need to be typed, but the summary does. Hand in the data as you collected it. (Either attach your tally sheet or an envelope containing your questionnaires.) </li
      > </list
    > </section
  > </body
>
</html>
