<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<head
    xmlns:c="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
    xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml"
  ><title
    >Collaborative Statistics: Additional Resources</title
  ><meta
      name="created-time"
      content="2008/12/03 10:25:20 US/Central"
  /><meta
      name="revised-time"
      content="2012/06/29 11:38:50 GMT-5"
  /><meta
      name="licensor"
      content="MaxfieldFoundation"
  /><meta
      name="license"
      content="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/"
  /><meta
      name="keywords"
      content="accessibility, additional, adoption, collaborative, elementary, guide, resources, statistics, supplemental, teacher, usage, version, video"
  /><meta
      name="subject"
      content="Mathematics and Statistics"
  /></head
>
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<body
    xmlns:c="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
    xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml"
    xmlns:qml="http://cnx.rice.edu/qml/1.0"
    xmlns:mod="http://cnx.rice.edu/#moduleIds"
    xmlns:bib="http://bibtexml.sf.net/"
    xmlns:data="http://dev.w3.org/html5/spec/#custom"
  ><div
      class="title"
    >Collaborative Statistics: Additional Resources</div
  ><div
      class="abstract"
    >This module catalogs several of the resources available for teachers and students using the Collaborative Statistics (col10522) textbook and its derivatives. This module provides links to the complementary teacher's guide, supplemental materials including video lectures and additional problem sets, accessibility information, collection version history and errata, and a list of related works and teachers who have adopted them for their courses.</div
  > <ul
      class="list"
      data-id="eip-50"
    ><div
        class="title"
      >Additional Resources Currently Available</div
    ><li
        class="item"
      ><a
          href="#glossary-para"
        >Glossary</a
      ></li
    > <li
        class="item"
      ><a
          href="#view-online-para"
        >View or Download This Textbook Online</a
      ></li
    > <li
        class="item"
      ><a
          href="#teachers-guide-para"
        >Collaborative Statistics Teacher's Guide</a
      ></li
    > <li
        class="item"
      ><a
          href="#supplemental-para"
        >Supplemental Materials</a
      ></li
    > <li
        class="item"
      ><a
          href="#videolectures"
        >Video Lectures</a
      ></li
    > <li
        class="item"
      ><a
          href="#version-history-para"
        >Version History</a
      ></li
    > <li
        class="item"
      ><a
          href="#adoption-para"
        >Textbook Adoption and Usage</a
      ></li
    > <li
        class="item"
      ><a
          href="#additional-tech-para"
        >Additional Technologies and Notes</a
      ></li
    > <li
        class="item"
      ><a
          href="#accessibility-para"
        >Accessibility and Section 508 Compliance</a
      ></li
    > </ul
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="element-392"
    >The following section describes some additional resources for learners and educators. These modules and collections are all available on the Connexions website (<a
        href="http://cnx.org/"
      >http://cnx.org/</a
    >) and can be viewed online, downloaded, printed, or ordered as appropriate.</p
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="glossary-para"
    ><span
        class="title"
      >Glossary</span
    >This module contains the entire glossary for the Collaborative Statistics textbook collection (col10522) since its initial release on 15 July 2008. The glossary is located at <a
        href="/m16129"
      >http://cnx.org/content/m16129/latest/</a
    >. <br
    /><br
    /> Below are links to additional resources: <br
    /> Link to the Statistics Glossary by Dr. Philip Stark, UC Berkeley <br
    /><br
    /> <cite
      ><span
          class="cite-title"
        >http:// </span
      ></cite
    ><a
        href="http://statistics.berkeley.edu/~stark/SticiGui/Text/gloss.htm"
      ><cite
        ><span
            class="cite-title"
          >statistics.berkeley.edu/~stark/SticiGui/Text/gloss.htm</span
        ></cite
      ></a
    > <br
    /><br
    /> Link to Wikipedia <br
    /><br
    /> <cite
      ><span
          class="cite-title"
        >http:// </span
      ></cite
    ><a
        href="http://www.wikipedia.org/"
      ><cite
        ><span
            class="cite-title"
          >http://www.wikipedia.org/</span
        ></cite
      ></a
    > <br
    /> (Search on "Glossary of probability and statistics.") </p
  ><p
      class="para"
      id="view-online-para"
    ><span
        class="title"
      >View or Download This Textbook Online</span
    >The complete contents of this book are available at no cost on the Connexions website at <a
        href="/col10522"
      >http://cnx.org/content/col10522/latest/</a
    >. Anybody can view this content free of charge either as an online e-book or a downloadable PDF file. A low-cost printed version of this textbook is also available <a
        href="http://my.qoop.com/store/7064943342106149/7781159220340"
      >here</a
    >.</p
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="teachers-guide-para"
    ><span
        class="title"
      >Collaborative Statistics Teacher's Guide</span
    >A complementary Teacher's Guide for Collaborative statistics is available through Connexions at <a
        href="/col10547"
      >http://cnx.org/content/col10547/latest/</a
    >. The Teacher's Guide includes suggestions for presenting concepts found throughout the book as well as recommended homework assignments. A low-cost printed version of this textbook is also available <a
        href="http://my.qoop.com/store/7064943342106149/8791310589747"
      >here</a
    >.</p
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="supplemental-para"
    ><span
        class="title"
      >Supplemental Materials</span
    >This companion to Collaborative Statistics provides a number of additional resources for use by students and instructors based on the award winning <a
        href="http://sofia.fhda.edu/gallery/statistics/index.html"
      >Elementary Statistics Sofia online course</a
    >, also by textbook authors Barbara Illowsky and Susan Dean. This content is designed to complement the textbook by providing video tutorials, course management materials, and sample problem sets. The Supplemental Materials collection can be found at <a
        href="/col10586"
      >http://cnx.org/content/col10586/latest/</a
    >. <ul
        class="list"
        data-id="videolectures"
        data-list-type="bulleted"
      ><div
          class="title"
        >Video Lectures</div
      > <li
          class="item"
        ><a
            href="/m17561"
          >Video Lecture 1: Sampling and Data</a
        ></li
      > <li
          class="item"
        ><a
            href="/m17562"
          >Video Lecture 2: Descriptive Statistics</a
        ></li
      > <li
          class="item"
        ><a
            href="/m17563"
          >Video Lecture 3: Probability Topics</a
        ></li
      > <li
          class="item"
        ><a
            href="/m17565"
          >Video Lecture 4: Discrete Distributions</a
        ></li
      > <li
          class="item"
        ><a
            href="/m17566"
          >Video Lecture 5: Continuous Random Variables</a
        ></li
      > <li
          class="item"
        ><a
            href="/m17567"
          >Video Lecture 6: The Normal Distribution</a
        ></li
      > <li
          class="item"
        ><a
            href="/m17568"
          >Video Lecture 7: The Central Limit Theorem</a
        ></li
      > <li
          class="item"
        ><a
            href="/m17569"
          >Video Lecture 8: Confidence Intervals</a
        ></li
      > <li
          class="item"
        ><a
            href="/m17570"
          >Video Lecture 9: Hypothesis Testing with a Single Mean</a
        ></li
      > <li
          class="item"
        ><a
            href="/m17577"
          >Video Lecture 10: Hypothesis Testing with Two Means</a
        ></li
      > <li
          class="item"
        ><a
            href="/m17571"
          >Video Lecture 11: The Chi-Square Distribution</a
        ></li
      > <li
          class="item"
        ><a
            href="/m17572"
          >Video Lecture 12: Linear Regression and Correlation</a
        ></li
      > </ul
    ></p
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="version-history-para"
    ><span
        class="title"
      >Version History</span
    >This module contains a listing of changes, updates, and corrections made to the Collaborative Statistics textbook collection (col10522) since its initial release on 15 July 2008. The Version History is located at <a
        href="/m17360"
      >http://cnx.org/content/m17360/latest/</a
    >.</p
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="adoption-para"
    ><span
        class="title"
      >Textbook Adoption and Usage</span
    >This module is designed to track the various derivations of the Collaborative Statistics textbook and its various companion resources, as well as keep track of educators who have adopted various versions for their courses. New adopters are encouraged to provide their contact information and describe how they will use this book for their courses. The goal is to provide a list that will allow educators using this book to collaborate, share ideas, and make suggestions for future development of this text. The Adoption and Usage module is located at <a
        href="/m18261"
      >http://cnx.org/content/m18261/latest/</a
    >.</p
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="additional-tech-para"
    ><span
        class="title"
      >Additional Technologies</span
    >In order to provide the most flexible learning resources possible, we invite collaboration from all instructors wishing to create customized versions of this content for use with other technologies. For instance, you may be interested in creating a set of instructions similar to this collection's calculator notes. If you would like to contribute to this collection, please use the contact the authors with any ideas or materials you have created.</p
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="accessibility-para"
    ><span
        class="title"
      >Accessibility and Section 508 Compliance</span
    ><ul
        class="list"
        data-id="element-23523"
        data-list-type="bulleted"
      ><li
          class="item"
        >For information on general Connexions accessibility features, please visit <a
            href="/m17212"
          >http://cnx.org/content/m17212/latest/</a
        >.</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        >For information on accessibility features specific to the Collaborative Statistics textbook, please visit <a
            href="/m17211"
          >http://cnx.org/content/m17211/latest/</a
        >.</li
      > </ul
    ></p
  > </body
>
</html>
