<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>The Chi-Square Distribution: Comparison Summary of the Chi-Square Tests Goodness-of-Fit, Independence and Homogeneity</title></head>
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<body
    xmlns:c="http://cnx.rice.edu/cnxml"
    xmlns:md="http://cnx.rice.edu/mdml"
    xmlns:qml="http://cnx.rice.edu/qml/1.0"
    xmlns:mod="http://cnx.rice.edu/#moduleIds"
    xmlns:bib="http://bibtexml.sf.net/"
    xmlns:data="http://dev.w3.org/html5/spec/#custom"
  ><div
      class="title"
    >The Chi-Square Distribution: Comparison Summary of the Chi-Square Tests Goodness-of-Fit, Independence and Homogeneity</div
  ><div
      class="abstract"
    >Summarizes when to use the Goodness-of-Fit, Independence and Homogeneity tests.</div
  > <p
      class="para"
      id="delete_me"
    ><span
        class="title"
      >Comparison Summary of the Chi-Square Tests: Goodness-of-Fit, Independence and Homogeneity</span
    >You have seen the <math
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
      > <msup
        > <mi
          >&#x3C7;</mi
        > <mn
          >2</mn
        > </msup
      ></math
    > test statistic used in three different circumstances. Below is a summary that will help you decide which <math
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
      > <msup
        > <mi
          >&#x3C7;</mi
        > <mn
          >2</mn
        > </msup
      ></math
    > test is the appropriate one to use. <br
    /><br
    /> <ul
        class="list"
        data-id="eip-id8185633"
      ><li
          class="item"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Goodness-of-Fit:</strong
        > Use the Goodness-of-Fit Test to decide whether a population with unknown distribution "fits" a known distribution. In this case there will be a single qualitative survey question or a single outcome of an experiment from a single population. Goodness-of-Fit is typically used to see if the population is uniform (all outcomes occur with equal frequency), the population is normal, or the population is the same as another population with known distribution. The null and alternative hypotheses are: <br
        /> <math
            xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
          > <msub
            > <mi
              >H</mi
            > <mi
              >o</mi
            > </msub
          > </math
        >: The population fits the given distribution. <br
        /> <math
            xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
          > <msub
            > <mi
              >H</mi
            > <mi
              >a</mi
            > </msub
          > </math
        >: The population does not fit the given distribution.</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Independence:</strong
        > Use the Test for Independence to decide whether two variables (factors) are independent or dependent. In this case there will be two qualitative survey questions or experiments and a contingency table will be constructed. The goal is to see if the two variables are unrelated (independent) or related (dependent). The null and alternative hypotheses are: <br
        /> <math
            xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
          > <msub
            > <mi
              >H</mi
            > <mi
              >o</mi
            > </msub
          > </math
        >:The two variables (factors) are independent. <br
        /> <math
            xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
          > <msub
            > <mi
              >H</mi
            > <mi
              >a</mi
            > </msub
          > </math
        >:The two variables (factors) are dependent.</li
      > <li
          class="item"
        ><strong
            class="emphasis"
          >Homogeneity:</strong
        > Use the Test for Homogeneity to decide if two populations with unknown distribution have the same distribution as each other. In this case there will be a single qualitative survey question or experiment given to two different populations. The null and alternative hypotheses are: <br
        /> <math
            xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
          > <msub
            > <mi
              >H</mi
            > <mi
              >o</mi
            > </msub
          > </math
        >:The two populations follow the same distribution. <br
        /> <math
            xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
          > <msub
            > <mi
              >H</mi
            > <mi
              >a</mi
            > </msub
          > </math
        >:The two populations have different distributions. </li
      > </ul
    ></p
  ><p
      class="para"
      id="eip-167"
    >**With contributions by Dr. Larry Green</p
  ></body
>
</html>
